tier v might be very unfriendly to melee
but warriors can come in hot with their
new gear and actually dominate on
overall damage if they are played well
and they do have a good group
composition to support them what's up
guys welcome back to the channel and
today i'm just going to have a quick
conversation about warriors and rogues
and how strong they are in tier 5
content now there's a huge stigma pretty
much a massive stigma around tbc where
melee classes are seen as not nearly as
powerful or as useful as a lot of the
range classes melee are extremely gear
dependent and so as we get a lot more
gear obviously with tier 5 content are
they going to be stronger are they going
to be more solid and will dps warriors
be able to keep up will rogues be able
to keep up because they're the kings of
classic and now they're kind of not
so with that being said let's dive right
into it okay so the first thing i'm
going to do is pull up just kind of some
logs just some general logs from ssc and
tk so you can see that very few raids uh
on the public logs are bringing warriors
and rogues for the most part they might
be bringing one rogue or one warrior so
diving through a ton of vlogs it seems
like you're seeing very very few fury
warriors and very very few rogues if
even that and then i've got some logs
from
my own testing runs uh with other
streamers so i'm gonna end up playing
that in the background but you can see
that like rogues can do just fine here
this was on a character in a non-optimal
situation but in general in tbc it
doesn't matter what class you are
you need a group comp
to support you
this is just a universal fact of tbc and
probably my least favorite thing about
the expansion rogues are able to
absolutely pump you can see on single
target with no new gear you can easily
be at like 2.6k to 3k during your actual
burst but the real advantage we get is
from our cleave melee classes probably
have the strongest cleave up to a point
obviously mages have the best cleave for
a large amount of targets and then
warlocks with seat of corruption but up
to four targets
nothing beats a warrior and straight up
on two targets nothing beats a rogue so
you actually have these classes that are
extremely powerful for specific
situations mainly speedrun situations
trash and cleave these are huge right so
rogues and warriors they don't need to
sit or drink ever so you never need to
stop if you're looking towards speed
runs rogues and warriors also can do a
ton of damage on cleave although rogues
are
massively gimped by the fact that blade
flurry is a two minute cooldown and i
think this is
the biggest flaw of the class in general
for pve if we just had two charges or
like a 45 second cooldown rogues would
be amazing but
until we get something changed there we
are on a two-minute cooldown for rogues
to be a lot more powerful so i'm going
to start by let's just talk about rogues
first then how are rogues doing in tier
5 content because tear guy content is
notoriously unfriendly to melee classes
tier 5 content is the raids where
everyone actually from tbc private
servers usually is talking about how
melee don't do that well mainly because
in tier five there's a lot of mechanics
that are very punishing you can see i
have a death counter on the stream uh or
on the screen because this was me going
in with the pug and just seeing how many
times i'm gonna die because in your
first or first few times in tk
especially sometimes ssc but more so tk
there's a lot of mobs that do whirlwinds
that can kill you in like one to two
seconds so you have to be very cautious
about
dealing with all of those that's like
the biggest
thing for tier 5 content for melee is
that you're always going to be aware of
what can kill you a lot of things can
kill you really fast
now rogues bring utility to the raid
itself mainly in the aspect of exposed
armor improved exposed armor
or you could be running the hemo build
which is a pve build for hemo that you
still have things like blade flurry and
it's giving you the hemo debuff on all
targets it's nice for trash because
you're building up the damage of the
rest of your raid on those targets with
the hemo debuff either way
a lot of the content into your five is
very easy for rogue and warrior but
rogan specific does a lot better here
than it was doing in tier
4 content because in 10 man's you don't
really have a group that's perfectly set
up for you in 25 man's you are basically
just fighting bosses and where melee
classes can excel the most
is generally on overall damage
but rogue falls behind on that again
because of the lack of blade flurry
so
really the big thing for rogues in tier
5 content is that we finally start
getting some like armor penetration with
an insane trinket from boydreaver that
is probably one of the best trinkets in
the game i've yet to have it drop and be
able to test it
but it is amazing warp spring coil
giving you a thousand armor pen on proc
later on in tier six content is where
rogues will really shine when we have
static haste
and armor penetration like crazy that's
the biggest thing holding us back right
now that's why we're not scaling so well
because of gear limitations but you're
pretty much not gonna be beating anyone
on the charts or you shouldn't be
beating anyone good on the charts as a
rogue unfortunately even on overall
damage that being said that's basically
where rogues are but giant caveat
warriors on the other hand fury warriors
they bring no utility to the raid but
they bring
insane overall damage a good fury
warrior with a good group composition
actually destroys almost anyone on
overall damage both of these classes
scale well with gear but fury warriors
aren't limited by blade flurry being on
a two minute cd they're not limited by
having no cleave fury warriors and
albeit arms warriors
are hugely important to tier 5 content
and beyond especially as we're moving
towards uh speed runs as that kind of
becomes a thing again so we will see a
lot of groups probably end up running
with a fury warrior sometimes two
it'll kind of depend on what your group
composition is but on overall damage and
i can't really show you this right now
because
of personal limitations i would say but
you'll see on some the first few weeks
of ssc and such that some fury warriors
are going to absolutely dominate the
charts there's so much trash that you're
actually just going to go in and
dumpster everyone in a lot of polls now
there are the pulls where an arcane mage
can't be beat or the poles where a
shadow warlock or a warlock in general
won't be beat this also happens that
they do scale decently well with their
new gear especially arcane mages who get
20 damage on their arcane blast but this
is more so for overall damage that just
like kind of pads them out and then
arcane explosion keeps them feeling nice
and juicy warriors though still will be
able to come in and absolutely destroy
now from the logs i showed you earlier
overall damage you might be kind of like
checking it on your own
raids overall damage a lot of guilds are
seeing warlocks as number one on overall
damage on their testing warlocks uh some
are seeing hunters and some are seeing
an arcane mage
but from going through like actually
hundreds of vlogs
i've found that almost never is anyone
doing more damage on overall damage than
a very solid fury warrior you do need to
be extremely cautious about mechanics
like i was kind of mentioning a second
ago that there's a lot of things that
are very punishing a lot of mobs that'll
do whirlwinds and there's things like
olar where the boss will just run away
from you and it's easier to get more
uptime on a range than it is on a melee
now
this isn't saying that
these classes are insane in these next
tier but it is saying that they're
actually
great
right they're actually a lot more solid
than most people have been talking about
them most people have thought about them
fury warriors are extremely strong
moving on and i can almost guarantee
that every top guild in the world is
looking at the potential for fury
warriors everyone is looking at how
powerful they are how powerful they can
be and we're all kind of paying
attention for every one of these classes
to scale really well with their tier six
gear
will these classes be utilized that much
probably not as much as they should be
but a good fury warrior is actually
going to help your raid a ton in damage
they can actually
pretty much be number one in overall
damage if they really play well and have
the group composition again and that's
pretty much it guys fury warriors are
gonna do great in tier five content if
they play well and respect mechanics and
rogues are gonna be
slightly stronger than they are right
now the huge thing is having this armor
pen especially on your cleave for
whenever you're actually popping blade
flurry it's going to be really really
nice and the gear scales really well
with rogues so it's going to be nice to
have this crazy crazy four piece which
is actually insane so rogues are getting
a lot stronger
but then again every class is getting a
lot stronger the class that really
shines in this conversation for today is
fury warriors mainly because now we've
got so much trash they have so much
uptime on damage and their cleave damage
is just amazing anyways guys thank you
all for watching i appreciate it i hope
to see you guys all out there in tier
five content there's actually a ton of
fun things you can do in tier five
content that are really really exciting
so i hope to keep you guys all updated
on those there's a lot of tips and
tricks we've actually discovered that
i'll be sharing pretty much right after
race to world first
all right from there guys everyone have
a great
great day and i'll see you all on the
next one